Cris, let's see how we can manage human capital.
This is very broad, but we need a method, a formula that helps us set goals, evaluate, develop, help you reach those goals.
This is often the orthodox way, it includes many things, management of performance, management of development, etc.
But what we are going to do is a unique method.
That's it, it's a process, we're going to explain it as if it were an annual process, we're going to call it the employee cycle.
This first process starts with a phase that is the setting of goals.
You, based on the company goals you have and based on the position that each employee occupies, you have to set some goals.
Once you set those goals, you have to set KPIs, some measurement systems of those goals to see that they are improving and that they are being fulfilled.
And how is this done? When setting goals, you have to follow the MARTE rule.
A business goal has to be measurable, it cannot be ethereal, it cannot be generic, because that leads to frustration, to dismotivation, something that you cannot measure.
It has to be achievable, it has to be realistic, you don't ask for an impossible goal.
It has to be realistic and challenging, it cannot be impossible, but on the other hand it cannot be easy or that it does not have an impact on the benefits.
It also has to be timed, you cannot set a goal without a deadline.
You have to set it and say, hey, this year we have to do a number of sales, a number of products, a number of things.
And then it has to be achievable, what we said, it cannot be impossible because it demotivates, but it cannot be something that does not motivate you at the challenge level.
This that seems common sense, we always say, it seems common sense, the objectives are MARTE and everyone has heard it, but when you set the goals, you have to take it into account, because many times those requirements are not met and in the end it is useless.
And then it also helps you to be efficient, to have an organizational and business efficiency, because in the end only the people to whom you set goals are efficient in their work.
Because if you don't know what you have to do, you can be wasting time and that is a loss of money and time for everyone who is not efficient.
Because working does not consist of doing tasks, it is contributing to business goals and everything else is worthless.
The goals that you set have to be aligned with the strategic goals.
That's right, it has to be based on the position that each one occupies in the organization and then they also have to comply with the MARTE rule, measurable, achievable, challenging, timed and specific.
That's on the one hand.
So this first phase is the setting of goals.
And how do we do it?
Well, you meet at the beginning of the year with your collaborators individually, in one to one, and you set those individual goals of each one based on the company's goals and their position.
Okay, then I want to see some examples.
And you set the goals and you set the metrics or KPIs with which we are going to follow those goals.
Exactly.
If you want, we can set examples.
For example, a seller, you set an annual sales target, with a market share KPI, for example, which would be the expected result, the KPI.
Yes, yes.
It would be a sales target, for example, a human resources target, for example, improving the work environment.
Well, you have to design a job climate survey to launch the employees, that's the goal, right?
Yes.
And how are we going to measure it?
Well, you have to set a target, which is the launch of the survey, that the results are also favorable, that there has been an improvement, and that you have also put a plan of action based on the areas of improvement that the employees have told you that you have to improve.
Okay?
Yes.
It would be a KPI, okay?
Of a human resources target, for example.
Yes.
And then a person, for example, of customer care, okay?
Well, for example, the satisfaction surveys.
Exactly, for example, that 90% of the satisfaction surveys of our clients have a higher rating than a specific score this year.
That and, for example, the number of calls, right?
That's it, okay?
To make it effectively measurable and specific, okay?
Well, those would be examples of three objectives of people in different departments.
Okay.
So, once you have had that meeting with your collaborator to set their goals, in that meeting you also have to set some development goals.
Why?
Because you have to help your collaborator achieve those goals that you have as a company and at an individual level.
So, based on that, and I'm going to explain it with the examples we've put, we set some development goals, okay?
Imagine, hey, well, I'm the seller, you've given me some sales goals, okay?
Well, I need to develop my negotiating skills to reach these sales goals.
It is a bit focused on overcoming weaknesses or strengthening potential, right?
It is developing areas of improvement that each person has.
Nobody is perfect.
Yes.
Everyone has things to improve and what happens is that we have to help our people to focus on those areas of improvement to develop them
and to achieve the company's goals.
So, we are going to make individual development plans with each person to achieve the business goals that we have set for them.
That's it, that's it.
And they are development goals, that is, they also have to be measurable, achievable, challenging, set in time and specific, okay?
And we are going to follow the same measurement system, so to speak, okay?
So, we set business and development goals in a first meeting at the beginning of the year.
Can you give us an example of initiatives or development plans to achieve the goals that we have seen?
Okay, well, with the specific examples?
Yes, with some of them.
We have talked, for example, about the seller, okay?
We have already said that he needs to develop his negotiating skills.
Okay.
We have assigned him a specific training in consulting sales.
Or we send him for 15 days with another seller who is very good at that, for example.
For example, it may be, because in the end, what we also have to be clear when designing development plans is that people,
there is a rule that says that people learn, 70% of the things we learn, we learn through learning experiences, okay?
That is, doing things.
20% of what we learn, we learn in the relationship with our colleagues, managers, clients, collaborators, okay?
Which is, well, learning from others, so to speak.
And then 10% we learn based on traditional training, which can be face-to-face training, online,
well, what is understood by a specific training or course, okay?
So, depending on these, well, these modalities or learning possibilities,
you, based on the goal you have for development, you can tell this seller, for example,
to go on a market visit with the best seller you have on your team, okay?
So that he learns from the best, for example.
Or also a consulting sales course.
Or also, well, that you have individual meetings with him to teach, okay?
I mean, those are different development or learning actions that you can design in that development plan.
Okay, I'm going to do a recap.
First meeting, we set some business goals, validated with the other person,
everything very validated, everything very consensual.
We set some KPIs, which are metrics we are going to use, indicators we are going to use
to see if those goals are achieved or not.
And then what we do is, we are going to help him, through development plans or initiatives,
to achieve those goals.
And that stays there, the meeting is over, what do you do?
Do you sign?
Well, in the end it is a commitment.
It is a commitment, I mean, to sign in a way...
Generally, you do it on a file, on a document, whether it is Word, Excel, whatever you want.
In a document that both the manager and the collaborator sign.
And what they do is, in a second phase of the process, after a while,
you determine that with your manager or collaborator,
say, hey, we are going to sit down to follow up on this plan,
quarterly, or quarterly, or monthly.
You define that with your collaborators.
And that is the second meeting you have, the monitoring and feedback meeting.
Well, there are several of those.
Yes, the ones you set up in a year.
Depending on the monitoring you want to do,
if it is monthly, bi-monthly, quarterly or semester,
there will be a certain percentage of meetings of that kind.
So, in that meeting, basically, it is with that template,
you are seeing how you are going to achieve the objectives.
So, for what?
Well, one of two.
Either to correct an objective that is not being fulfilled,
or to keep motivating you to keep achieving it as it is being demonstrated.
And the same with the development objectives.
Maybe, hey, it turns out that you have already had that training in sales,
and now we have come up with that,
that you go out with the best of the sellers so that you learn.
Well, the monitoring meeting is established.
It is very logical.
In the end, it is to see how things are going.
Indeed.
It is a monitoring meeting and feedback.
And then there would be the last meeting,
which is at the end of the year,
which is where all the annual performance that the collaborator has had is evaluated,
whether he has achieved or not the objectives.
And based on that assessment,
the retribution systems that we have talked about on other occasions,
such as a bonus or commercial incentives,
a flexible retribution, will be established.
Perfect.
It is an annual process in which we set objectives
that have to be aligned with those of the company,
that have to meet the criteria of being in MARTE,
and development plans to achieve them.
And then what we do is to be close to the collaborators,
because if you do the first meeting and then you forget,
when you go back, there has been so much misalignment that…
It is essential in these processes that the feedback is continuous.
Because what you cannot do is wait until the end of the year to give feedback to your collaborator,
because you have lost a brutal opportunity to motivate him or correct him.
So, in the end, some inefficiencies are lost.
So, the feedback has to be constant.
Then you can formalize it or not with this type of meetings,
but the feedback has to be constant.
These things are done well.
They have to be done well, they cannot be done halfway.
They take time.
You can be a very busy businessman and think that you do not have time,
and you know this would be fine, but you leave it aside.
That is what happens to many businessmen.
But in the end, you have to make an effort,
because both the businessman and his collaborators internalize this process.
Because it is the only way for them to get it out naturally.
But if you have to force them,
this is a process of human resources,
this is not a process of human resources,
this is a business process.
Totally. It is strategic.
It is strategic.
So, you have to make your people internalize it
so that this continuous feedback is carried out,
because it is the only way to achieve your goals
and to improve and continue to develop the business.
Perfect. Thank you very much.
It was very good.
Thank you.